# saving_the_world_with_genealogy = categ title

CATEG DESC Just kidding, of course. If I felt the world needed saving, I'd be out there whipping it with a wet noodle right now.

thread #1: FIXCOMGEN

OK, first things first: 1) saving the world with genealogy is not possible, and 2) the universe is not broken and the world does not need to be saved. We are supposed to be "only human", warts and all.

All right then, why all the negativity? Does this fun hobby really need to be critiqued and quality controlled?

Critiqued: yes.

Quality controlled: no. Controllish types can keep their committees; this "fix computer genealogy" movement or FIXCOMGEN for shortish, is for persons of action, not the people of the yikyak. Committees are like plagues of locusts: as their numbers increase, they have less and less to eat until they've eaten everything and they all die at once. FIXCOMGEN is not about reading the minutes of our last meeting and sipping coffee. It's not about hobnobbing or networking. It's not about complaining, although criticizing the way things are is part of the fun.

But the real fun is getting things done while everyone else is either 1) rushing to write and sell toy apps that butter your toast for you but don't do genealogy right, or 2) yik-yakking.

Welcome to the real world, boys and girls, where popularity contests are disguised as political committees and election-related processes, and the real work is done by people who enjoy doing the good work and don't care whether they get credit for it. Politics is, as it always has been and always will be, a protection racket for vested interests, which in our case are the genieware vendors selling toy apps that were rushed to market before they were able to do genealogy right. Of the two--1) vendors rushing unfinished genieware bloated with funny features to market and 2) political bodies working behind the scenes to protect the status quo, I'd say the software vendors are less evil because they aren't trying to control anything, they're just making the same sad mistakes over and over. And the committees are not particularly nefarious--this is just a hobby, after all--but they still protect the status quo by pushing for small changes and moderating revolutionary proddings like mine off the page. Pushing small changes is the meat and potatos of committees everywhere, as they try to be realistic and by so doing only undershore the existing problems which need to be attacked head-on by persons of action.

And when a committee announces that it will tackle Problem A, that pretty much encourages no one else to fix the dang thing, because, never mind, the Committee's gonna do it.

Yeah, right.

Does it matter whether FIXCOMGEN makes any progress in saving the world with genealogy?

No, not at all. It's just my hobby. If I wanted to do something important, I'd be out there whipping the world with a wet noodle, a whipping it rightly deserves.

thread #2: GEDCOM Benders International Society of Hobbiests [sic] aka GBISH

No, "hobbiests" is not spelled wrong. The distinction means a lot to me.

And it is no mistake that GBISH rhymes with rubbish, gibberish, and sheepish.

We are in fact embarrassed for the state of genealogy today that our organization must exist.

Why, here we are, in the muddle of the 21st century, still using antique computer tools like GEDCOM to do our work inadequately while barely bothering to complain about it and while defenders of the status quo pretend to be fixing GEDCOM while actually planting and replanting the phrase "the GEDCOM standard" in our fertile imaginations, effectively hypnotizing the membership of the world's greatest hobby that their ancestors are in good hands. "Don't worry, kids, we'll fix GEDCOM by and by, just keep entering your data into our websites and programs. We'll get rich selling your ancestors back to you and you will not notice. You will not notice that your data is corrupted and your work is ruined every time you export a GEDCOM. You will not notice... You will not notice..."

Come on, sheeples, wake up. Nobody is going to fix GEDCOM and no one even wants to. Why not? If someone fixed an Edison phonograph would you be able to play Aretha Franklin's Biggest Hits on it? That's why fixing GEDCOM is a ruse. A ploy. A joke. A distraction. A scam.

We, the persons of action, must replace GEDCOM ourselves, because the powers-that-be within the genealogy elite are not gonna do it, ever. They are eating out of each others' pockets, protecting each others' interests, in league with the corporations that own proprietary images of your ancestors' public domain documents and sell them back to you. We like them corporations, we do. They save us plenty of time, and some of them are as free as the others should be.

This isn't just a conspiracy theory, GBISH is a fun club for everyone to join, and you're already in it! As a gesture of good faith, I hereby grant each and every genealogist in the world, including those who think I'm crazy and/or wrong and/or really really serious, a free lifetime membership in FIXCOMGEN and GBISH, till death do us part. And guess what? Even if you disagree with me, you still get to vote! What are we gonna vote on? Not a dang thing!

In case anyone hasn't noticed, voting is the opiate of the masses. We do nothing but vote, so that those we vote for can do nothing but talk. Can anyone vibrate with that?

No siree, boys and girls, our purpose here has nothing to do with voting or gradual changes or protecting the vested interests of computer genealogy. Our purpose is to fix things that are broken, replace things that can't be fixed, and have fun changing the way computer genealogy is done.

Wait! Where's everybody going? No, no, don't run away from me like that! Didn't you see the sign you just fled past without reading it? Y'all are headed for Lemming Leap!

We either fix the way computer genealogy is done or it will continue to be dumbed down till it gets all the way to McGenealogy and I have to go back to reading paperback novels to kill the time. I'm serious.

I'm joking.

No, I'm serious.

Let's just vote on it.